---
layout: post
title: Week 11 (Aug 14 - Aug 20)
---
I continued to fine-tune the AmericanGut embeddings pipeline. To ensure that the accuracy scores were of an average of different seeds, I made a minor adjustment to the code to loop through 10 different seeds for each curvature. I then visualized the results by creating box plots that showed the D average, hyperDT accuracy, and DT accuracy as boxplots across curvatures -2 to 2. The D average from -1.4 to 2.0 curvature increased slightly (0.001). Interestingly, while I expected hyperDT to better characterize hyperbolic curvature embeddings and DT spherical curvature embeddings, there was no significant correlation between any variables. In fact, for most curvatures, the DT model did a slightly better job preserving the embedding distances. 

I also addressed the normalization process after building the k-NN graphs. Instead of using Euclidean distance, which isn’t compatible with Aitchison distance, I applied a log-ratio transformation to the distances to obtain the Aitchison distance, which is more appropriate to use for hyperbolic space. When performing the log-ratio transformation, I substituted zero values with an epsilon value of 1e-10, which is significantly smaller than the minimum value of the dataset, 1e-6. 

Additionally, I visualized the k-NN graphs generated when obtaining the k-NN distances using a cluster map to see the relationships between samples in the AmericanGut dataset. We saw that the dataset seemed to be ordered in some way. 