---
layout: post
title: Week 2 (Jun 12 - Jun 18)
---

This week, I brushed up on my Python skills and completed half of the 44-hour "Python for Machine Learning & Data Science" course on Udemy. I also finished the [HyperDT tutorial](https://github.com/pchlenski/hyperdt/blob/main/notebooks/tutorial.ipynb) from [Chlenski 2024](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13841) to better understand its functionality. Additionally, I began drafting the initial version of my website to fulfill the DREAM requirements. At the end of the week, I met with Philippe to ask questions about his code, where he recommended several Python packages (e.g., PyTorch, scikit-learn) that would be valuable to know for the project. I also met Dr. Frank Li from Georgia Tech, my assigned mentor. We discussed various topics, including the normal trajectory from PhD to academia in computer science, ways to identify niche research topics through classes, internships, and short projects, and what makes a strong PhD candidate. Dr. Li emphasized the importance of a solid technical background, strong communication skills, and relevant experience in internships and research projects. We also compared research in academia versus industry, highlighting that while academia offers flexibility and freedom, industry research often involves working with real data and resources, sometimes with less visibility. He shared his personal experience of taking a year in industry before transitioning to academia, which provided valuable insights for his research.